README.md, before:

# Mercury
<p align="center">
    <img src="./src/assets/mercury-logo.png"/> <br/>
    A simple FastApi template.
</p>

## Main purpose of this project
Mercury is a simple and reliable boilerplate that anyone can use from beginners to experts (no deep bullsh*t).   

This project uses:  
- Basic [OAuth2](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/security/oauth2-jwt/?h=jwt) authentication provided by FastApi security nested package.
- [PostgreSQL](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres) as its main database, [Redis](https://hub.docker.com/_/redis) for caching, and [flyway](https://hub.docker.com/r/flyway/flyway) for database migration.
- Unit and integration tests.

### Project architecture

```
├── src
│ └── assets
│ └── constants
│ └── controllers
│     ├── admin
│     ├── user
│ └── database
│     ├── postgres_db.py
│     ├── redis_db.py
│ └── integration_tests
│ └── middleware
│     ├── auth_guard.py
│ └── migrations
│ └── models
│ └── routes
│     ├── admin
│     ├── user
│ └── schemas
│ └── unit_tests
│ └── utils
│ └── app.py
│ └── main.py
│ └── restful_ressources.py
```

## Test the API

You can check the Swagger documentation on [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000).

```shell
curl localhost:8000/v1/health
```
This will check the health of the API. The result should be like this:  
```
{"alive":true, "status":"ok"}
```
## Setup
### Prerequisites

- [docker](https://www.docker.com)

### Environment variables

```shell
cp .env.dist .env
```
This will create a `.env` file in your project locally.

```s
APP_TITLE="Mercury API Docs"
APP_DESCRIPTION="This is the Swagger documentation of the Mercury API"
APP_VERSION=1.0
API_VERSION="v1"
APP_ENV=local
## Admin Configuration
ADMIN_USERNAME="admin"
ADMIN_EMAIL="admin"
ADMIN_PASSWORD="admin"
## Postgres Configuration
POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD=changeit
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mercury
POSTGRES_HOST=mercury_db
POSTGRES_PORT=5432
POSTGRES_USER=mercury
POSTGRES_DB=mercury
POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD=trust
## Redis Configuration
REDIS_HOST=mercury_cache
REDIS_PORT=6379
## JWT Configuration
JWT_SECRET_KEY="mysecretkey"
JWT_ALGORITHM="HS256"
ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRE_MINUTES=30
```

### Run the containers
```shell
docker-compose up --build --force-recreate
```

## Test the database

```shell
$ docker exec -it mercury_db psql -U mercury mercury
```

## How to add new SQL migrations ?
One of the main principles of this project is to `Keep It Simple and Stupid`.  
That's why we do not have any fancy ORM package installed here.  
To add a new migration to your project simply add a new SQL file in the `migrations` folder along with the next version number at the beginning of file name. 
 
```shell
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS public.test (
    id uuid DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4() PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(200)
);
-- This is an example where we create a test table. The new file name will be "V1.3__add_test_table"
```

If you want to know more you can check the [flyway db documentation](https://flywaydb.org).

## Integration and Unit Testing

One of important things that should be in every project is tests to keeps thing organized and make sure everything is working as intended.

### Integration tests
Here's how to run the integration test locally:  

```shell
docker-compose up --build --abort-on-container-exit mercury_integration_tests
```

### Unit tests
Here's how to run the integration test locally:  

```shell
docker-compose up --build --abort-on-container-exit mercury_unit_tests
```
-------
All contributions are welcome !

Commit message:

docs: add table of content

README.md, after:

# Mercury
<p align="center">
    <img src="./src/assets/mercury-logo.png"/> <br/>
    A simple FastApi template.
</p>

## Table of content

* [Introduction](#Introduction)
* [Setup](#setup)
* [Test the API](#test-the-api)
* [Test the database](#test-the-database)
* [How to add new SQL migrations](#how-to-add-new-sql-migrations)
* [Integration and Unit Testing](#integration-and-unit-testing)

## Introduction

Mercury is a simple and reliable boilerplate that anyone can use from beginners to experts (no deep bullsh*t).   

This project uses:  
- Basic [OAuth2](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/security/oauth2-jwt/?h=jwt) authentication provided by FastApi security nested package.
- [PostgreSQL](https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres) as its main database, [Redis](https://hub.docker.com/_/redis) for caching, and [flyway](https://hub.docker.com/r/flyway/flyway) for database migration.
- Unit and integration tests.

### Project architecture

```
├── src
│ └── assets
│ └── constants
│ └── controllers
│     ├── admin
│     ├── user
│ └── database
│     ├── postgres_db.py
│     ├── redis_db.py
│ └── integration_tests
│ └── middleware
│     ├── auth_guard.py
│ └── migrations
│ └── models
│ └── routes
│     ├── admin
│     ├── user
│ └── schemas
│ └── unit_tests
│ └── utils
│ └── app.py
│ └── main.py
│ └── restful_ressources.py
```

## Setup
### Prerequisites

- [docker](https://www.docker.com)

### Environment variables

```shell
cp .env.dist .env
```
This will create a `.env` file in your project locally.

```shell
APP_TITLE="Mercury API Docs"
APP_DESCRIPTION="This is the Swagger documentation of the Mercury API"
APP_VERSION=1.0
API_VERSION="v1"
APP_ENV=local
## Admin Configuration
ADMIN_USERNAME="admin"
ADMIN_EMAIL="admin"
ADMIN_PASSWORD="admin"
## Postgres Configuration
POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD=changeit
POSTGRES_PASSWORD=mercury
POSTGRES_HOST=mercury_db
POSTGRES_PORT=5432
POSTGRES_USER=mercury
POSTGRES_DB=mercury
POSTGRES_HOST_AUTH_METHOD=trust
## Redis Configuration
REDIS_HOST=mercury_cache
REDIS_PORT=6379
## JWT Configuration
JWT_SECRET_KEY="mysecretkey"
JWT_ALGORITHM="HS256"
ACCESS_TOKEN_EXPIRE_MINUTES=30
```

### Run the containers
```shell
docker-compose up --build --force-recreate
```

## Test the API

You can check the Swagger documentation on [localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000).

```shell
curl localhost:8000/v1/health
```
This will check the health of the API. The result should be like this:  
```
{"alive":true, "status":"ok"}
```

## Test the database

```shell
$ docker exec -it mercury_db psql -U mercury mercury
```

## How to add new SQL migrations ?
One of the main principles of this project is to `Keep It Simple and Stupid`.  
That's why we do not have any fancy ORM package installed here.  
To add a new migration to your project simply add a new SQL file in the `migrations` folder along with the next version number at the beginning of file name. 
 
```shell
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS public.test (
    id uuid DEFAULT uuid_generate_v4() PRIMARY KEY,
    name VARCHAR(200)
);
-- This is an example where we create a test table. The new file name will be "V1.3__add_test_table"
```

If you want to know more you can check the [flyway db documentation](https://flywaydb.org).

## Integration and Unit Testing

One of important things that should be in every project is tests to keeps thing organized and make sure everything is working as intended.

### Integration tests
Here's how to run the integration test locally:  

```shell
docker-compose up --build --abort-on-container-exit mercury_integration_tests
```

### Unit tests
Here's how to run the integration test locally:  

```shell
docker-compose up --build --abort-on-container-exit mercury_unit_tests
```
-------
All contributions are welcome !
